**Arash:** I think the best place to start would be if you could talk a bit about your upbringing. Where were you born and where did you grow up?
**Scott:** I was born in Brooklyn, New York. And when I was four years old, my family moved to Florida. My mother divorced my father and married somebody else. And I grew up in Hialeah, Florida. Back then, Hialeah was the poorest part of Dade County. And so, we were very poor. We were on food stamps. I wore clothes to school that were hand me downs and had holes in them. And it was a poor neighborhood, and we were really the only Jewish family. I used to get jumped and beat up after school or on the way to school and I'd be accused of killing Jesus by the kids that would jump me. I'd come home from school crying and then my stepfather would beat me for coming home and crying and I had to learn how to fight back, and I learned how to fight back. And I got in lots of fights.
**Arash:** Could you provide some cultural context in terms of the societal atmosphere while you were growing up. How different was it compared to now and what were your big influences growing up?
**Scott:** It was mainly from friends. We had a black and white TV. We watched shows on television. There were a lot of those cowboy and war shows. A lot of action kind of stuff. John Wayne, that kind of stuff that I saw on TV. And peer pressure was really important. Back at that time, what was really important was the concept of being a man, which was different then than it is today. Back then, a man was a person who didn’t show their feelings. A man wouldn’t cry. It was just different and it was important. It was really important to be a man. And that was one of the reasons I joined the Marine Corps. I didn’t know if I was really a man or not. And I thought ‘what would I do if I was in war? Would I be afraid? Would I run? Would I fight? Then what would I really do?’. I thought that if I went in the Marine Corps I could find out whether I was a man or not.
**Arash:** Your teenage years would be about the early 60s, late 50s, correct?
**Scott:** So, in 1959, I was 13. I turned 13 and I was bar mitzvah-ed. To me, my greatest years were ’65 to ’75. I had high school, and it was important to be one of the guys. If I made bad grades, I would get beat by my stepfather. So, it was important to get grades good enough not to get beat. My stepfather was a policeman and he beat my mother, myself, and my sister. We were often beat with a belt. And back then, it was just normal. You could hear kids in the neighborhood getting beat all the time by their parents, and that was just normal.
**Arash:** Was this sense of obedience brought on by the culture at the time, or was it influenced by peer pressure amongst your friends?
**Scott:** It was both. The general atmosphere towards adults was blind obedience to authority. You did what you were told, and you didn’t question it. And you didn’t have a right to question it. If you didn’t do what you were told, you were beat. It just seemed normal.
**Arash:** Moving on, you’ve discussed in previous interviews the pervasive presence of the Cold War. You’ve mentioned stories about having to do drills and there being a general sense of war with Russia. Did you see and hear a lot about that on the radio or television? Or was it more interpersonal talk amongst peers and parents?
**Scott:** It was all of those things, including school. On television there was a lot of propaganda. Anti-communist propaganda. There was a guy named Jack Webb who was an actor. On TV, there’d be a map of the world and spreading across the map would be the colour red. And that was the communists trying to take over the world. And the idea was that they wanted to take over the world and make everybody slaves, and that it was better for us to stop them over there, rather than have to fight them in the streets over here. So, there was a lot of anti-communism and my stepfather who was a police officer was also a member of the John Birch Society, which was a right-wing organization. People would dial the number Freedom on their telephone. If you dialed Freedom you'd get a recorded message about the Communist conspiracy to take over the world. And the messages that my stepfather made for this action were attacks on Martin Luther King.
We grew up segregated. It was an all-white school. White people lived in one place and black people lived somewhere else. Back then the black people were called coloured people. So as teenagers, we would go into coloured town at night and go to a bar and give somebody sitting outside some money and they’d get us some quarts of beer. We would take the beer and go out to the woods and drink beer and have fun. We made friends with some of these black kids there. We wanted to be friends with them if you will. Every weekend there was a dance at the municipal auditorium. We invited the black kids to come to dance, and they came to the dance, and the police kicked them out. They wouldn't allow that. We went to play football with them in the black neighborhood. And the police came. They broke that up and they wouldn't allow it. The authorities wouldn't allow us, they were afraid that somebody would get hurt. It would get out of control and there'd be a racial incident. So, the authorities kept us from meeting with each other.
**Arash:** Was that shocking to you to see how they were treated?
**Scott:** Because I was Jewish and because I was picked on for being Jewish growing up, I didn’t think that was fair. I didn’t do anything wrong. Why were people mad at me? So, it was easy for me to empathize with the black kids. They didn’t choose to be black, just like I didn’t choose to be born Jewish. Why would you penalize people for things that are not part of their behaviour. Not something that they did intentionally, but something that they had no choice over. It was easy for me to empathize with those that were being picked on.
**Arash:** Was that on the news a lot? That segregation and discrimination? Obviously, there were a lot of racial protests going on at the time, such as the Freedom Riders in the South. 
**Scott:** I didn’t really know about that. I didn’t really watch the news. I didn’t really read the newspaper. My main interest was social. What am I going to do on the weekend? Is there going to be a party I can go to? Who’s going to be my girlfriend? Those were the things that really interested me, and I didn’t really think about the world in general.
**Arash:** Two of the major events of the early 60s were the Cuban Missile Crisis in October of ‘62, and the JFK assassination in November of ’63. Do you have any personal stories about those events, or any memories of experiencing them?
**Scott:** I remember that there was a lot of what happened in Cuba that affected us. When Castro came to power after getting rid of the really terrible dictator Batista, there was a lot of singing. By the people that supported Castro, I remember in the streets people were singing ‘Cuba si, Yankee no, Cuba si, Yankee no!’. I couldn’t tell you what communism was, but it was the enemy and they were going to hurt us. We had drills in school where an alarm would go off and we would hide under our desks or hide against the wall away from the windows, supposedly to protect us from nuclear war attacks. So we grew up living in fear of the Russians dropping atomic bombs on us. I remember living in that fear.
**Arash:** What about any memories of the assassination?
**Scott:** I remember I was in class. I was in government class. I’m going to break away from that a little bit and come back to it. One of the things I really remember in that class was the teacher said, ‘If we could drop an atomic bomb on Saigon and end the war in Vietnam, would you be for it?’, and we all raised our hands. And then the teacher said ‘Why would we drop an atomic bomb on Saigon? That’s the capital of the side we’re fighting for’. And ‘This war in Vietnam is going to affect all of you, and you need to pay more attention to world affairs and what’s going on because your generation is going to be affected strongly by this’. I really remember that. Then I remember on the day that Kennedy was assassinated, over the loudspeaker, they interrupted and said President Kennedy had just been assassinated. Everybody started crying and my teacher went and opened up his briefcase and pulled out a little radio and turned on the radio so we could hear what was going on. In my mind I thought “Oh, we're going to go to war with Russia now”. That's what I thought. We're going to go to war with Russia. That was my first thought. And I was shocked. 
**Arash:** Was there a history in your family of military service?
**Scott:** My real father served in World War II. After I graduated high school, my real father went to prison. He spent 10 years in Atlanta Federal Penitentiary for two ounces of marijuana. He got busted in 1959. It was the third time he got caught with marijuana, so he was called a habitual offender. He got 10 years in federal prison with no parole. I graduated high school and went in the Marines. After I got out of the boot camp, I went to Atlanta Federal Penitentiary in uniform to visit my dad and I told him that I would be going to Vietnam, and did he have any advice for me, because he'd been in World War II, and his only advice was to keep a journal.
**Arash:** Did you end up taking his advice and keeping a journal? 
**Scott:** No, I wish I did. But when I got over there, my third week we were attacked and overrun. It was my first battle, and from that point on my total focus was on staying alive and paying attention to killing as many Vietnamese as I could.
**Arash:** Growing up, were there any discussions from World War II or Korea veterans in your life about what they experienced during their service?
**Scott:** People didn’t discuss their experiences. And that’s a really important part. Because even today when veterans come home, they don't discuss their experiences with their family. And that should be a wakeup call to the public, if you will, that this stuff that they're engaged in is so bad, that when they come home, they're a different person and they can't even discuss with their loved ones their service.
**Arash:** There’s this famous story in Dick Winters’ book, where he talks about coming back from the European Theatre in World War II and there being a kid scraping a fence with his stick. And he talks about the sound of that making him drop to the ground and cover up based purely on instinct. So, I can imagine the effects of what he may have experienced.
**Scott:** So, let me just say that I had the same thing when I came home from Vietnam, hearing a car backfire. Boom. I was on the ground. I couldn’t sleep at night. I slept with a gun because I didn’t feel comfortable without a gun.
**Arash:** Speaking of your service. You served in Vietnam from ’65 to ’67, correct?
**Scott:** No, I got to Vietnam in March of 1966. I joined the Marine Corps in ’65. So I graduated high school and went into boot camp, I think, in July of ’65. I graduated, maybe in September or October, and then I went to infantry training. Then I went home on leave. I went back to Camp Lejeune and got orders for Vietnam. Then I went to Camp Pendleton for guerrilla warfare school, mountain climbing school, escape and evasion school. Then I got sent to Okinawa for more guerrilla warfare school, a bunch of schools like that. When I finished all of that, I went to Vietnam. 
I arrived in Vietnam in March of 1966; I think it was March 24th. And as a new guy in the unit, I was put on guard duty. On April 18th, my third week in ‘Nam, I was on guard duty at night, and we were attacked by Viet Cong sappers, and they overran our position. We had five men killed and 28 men wounded out of 90 of us. It was my first battle. When I first got into the unity, people say “Hey man, where are you from?”, and I said, “I’m from Florida”. And they said “Hey, Maine is from Jacksonville. So, I met this guy named Maine and he was from Jacksonville. He was my friend and he got killed on April 18th on that night. The next day after, infantry reinforcements came, and we took the dead and wounded Americans so they could be taken care of up to the front. The dead Americans were lying next to a bunker, and they all had ponchos over them. I went and I pulled the ponchos off their faces to see who they were, and one of them was my first friend Maine.
When I saw him, it was like a light bulb went off in my head, and I realized that it was people’s job in this place to kill me, and they were allowed to do that. There was no such thing as timeout, or give me a second chance, and that if I didn’t pay attention that I was going to be dead. I decided that day that I was going to be ruthless, that I was going to have no empathy and I was going to get them back for what they did to us. And from that day forward, I was a brutal person.
**Arash:** Could you talk a bit about the day-to-day life in Vietnam compared to civilian life and training? What were some big differences you noticed?
**Scott:** When I first got to Vietnam, it was really hot. That was the first thing I noticed that it was really hot. And then I noticed the way that the people lived, and I thought that they were uncivilized. I was very ethnocentric at the time. I didn’t even know what that word meant at the time if you would have asked me. But I thought, “wow”. Seeing things like people peeing and shitting in the street. And it was just the women chewing betel nuts and their teeth were all black. I thought “Oh, that’s really disgusting and ugly”. I judged the Vietnamese by my own culture. I just thought that they were really backward, and I didn’t really have much respect for them.
**Arash:** Was that how most of the Americans there felt?
**Scott:** It's hard for me to say how most felt. I would say that the people around me, we called the Vietnamese “gooks”, “commies”, and “slope heads”. Even in training, before we went to Vietnam, we'd be at the bayonet range, and it would be: “kill the gook”. So, there was a lot of dehumanization and I think that that's understandable, but it's also bad. When I went to Vietnam, if the Vietnamese had not been dehumanized first, and I looked down my rifle at someone and thought “Maybe I could be friends with this guy. Why am I pointing my rifle at him? Maybe he has a girlfriend that would miss him. Maybe his parents would miss him if I killed him”. If I thought like that, I wouldn’t have been able to survive. I had to have no empathy at all, not think of them as being humans. So, my action would be immediate. There would be no time lapse between me deciding what I'm going to do and giving the other person an opportunity to kill me.
**Arash:** You’ve talked before about the fact that Vietnamese civilians didn’t like that the Americans were there and didn’t appreciate your presence. Could you highlight some examples that made you feel that way?
**Scott:** So, it's really unfair because we were so mean to the Vietnamese. There was no way that they were going to like us. You wouldn't be able to look at a Vietnamese person and tell a North Vietnamese from a South Vietnamese. You wouldn't be able to look at a Vietnamese person and tell whether they supported us or whether they supported the enemy. And for me, after that attack at Alpha North, I decided personally that I would err on the side of safety. And since I couldn't tell which Vietnamese were safe and which ones weren't, I felt if I just killed all the Vietnamese I came in contact with, some of them might be innocent, but it didn't really matter because I considered the life of one Marine more valuable than all of the Vietnamese, North and South. 
For me, what I would do is I'm just going to kill them. I'm just not going to have any feelings for them, and I'm just going to kill them. But I didn't beat prisoners. I didn't torture people. I didn't rape people. And a lot of that kind of stuff went on. For me, it was just killing them. And it's really strange how people think, because guys that would beat prisoners, get them on the ground and knock their teeth out with their rifle butts, and rape women, they thought I was the bad guy because I just murdered everybody. And I thought I was the good guy because I was putting them out of their misery. And I thought the people that were committing the beatings and the rapes were the bad guys. It was just a difference in how our perspective was. 
**Arash:** You talk about how Americans were very brutal with the Vietnamese. Do you think they would have been more accepting, or at the least less resentful about the Americans being there, had you been less brutal, or was that tension there regardless?
**Scott:** Of course, there would have been tension because nobody wants to be occupied. I live here in the United States. My government does a lot of things I don't support, but I certainly wouldn't support if we were occupied by a foreign nation. I certainly understand why Palestinians are against the Israeli occupation. I'm “occupation is bad”. People need to be in charge of themselves and they don't need foreign countries coming in and taking over their governments and telling them what to do and treating them as less than human.
**Arash:** Were there any of these discussions about your role there with fellow Marines at the time?
**Scott:** There wasn't really any discussions. I think we all thought that we were there to stop communism. And we had different attitudes about how we treated the Vietnamese and how we thought about it. I was one of the more ruthless kind of individuals, but I had a friend named Jim Fife and he was a forward observer, and we're still friends today. He would admonish me sometimes about how badly I treated the Vietnamese. I didn't really care, he saw them more as humans and I saw them more as “let's just kill them all”. 
**Arash:** Was there a good overview in terms why you were there and how the war was going? In that, did you have any sense of how successful you had been, or were you mainly focused on, again, staying alive and doing your job?
**Scott:** I'm just doing my job. But our success was measured by body count. So, the more people we killed, the more we considered ourselves successful. And we were taught in our training that if we killed 10 Vietnamese for every American that died, they would run out of people before us and we would win. So, body count was official policy. And then we operated in areas called free fire zones. Those free fire zones were official policy. And we were taught that the people that live in those zones, they are supporting the enemy. And in the guerrilla warfare the enemy needs intelligence. They get that from the people who live there. They need food. They need water. They need medical help. They need intelligence. And the people that live in those areas are giving them all those things. So, if we eliminate all of the people, the guerrillas have no one to feed them, no one to take care of them when they're hurt, no one to give them intelligence information. We're just going to clear the decks and get rid of all of them.
**Arash:** Did you have any sense of overall progress when you were doing these things, for example clearing out villages, etc.?
**Scott:** It didn't work that way because we operated in an area called. T A O R. It's an area on the map, and it's our total area of responsibility. And in this area on the map, there's different places. So, let's say that one week, we would go to a place called the mudflats and we would fight and kill everyone we could find in the mudflats. The next time we would go to a place called the sand dunes, and we would fight and kill the people there, and then we would go to the place called the island, and we would fight and kill people there, then we go back to the mudflats and do it all over again. Growing up as a kid, in the World War II movies the Allies take a city, and then it's theirs, and then they take another city, and then it's theirs. In Vietnam, we kept fighting, and people were dying, taking the same area, over and over again. We would take it, then we'd go somewhere else, and the Viet Cong would come back, and it didn't really feel like we were accomplishing anything. The idea was just not to get killed and to kill as many of them as we could. 
**Arash:** Was there any feedback that you got from back home in the U.S., via either mail or news?
**Scott:** I sent pictures home to my parents of me standing on tops of bodies of people that I killed. I sent home a lot of pictures of dead Vietnamese and my parents would write back, “We're really proud of you”. They would send newspaper articles sometimes, and I would send them newspaper articles anytime there'd be an article about something our unit did. That would be in the Sea Tiger, a publication from the Navy that we had in Vietnam. I would send them that and I'd write, “This is my unit”. And then they would send me back stuff that they saw happening in area that they knew I was around. So we had that kind of communications. I sent them the pictures of the dead bodies. They sent me back letters saying how proud they were of me.
**Arash:** You’ve talked in the past about the anger and frustration you felt towards the South Vietnamese soldiers, because you felt that you were supposed to be there assisting them but were rather taking the brunt of the conflict. What was the root cause of this dynamic? Was it a lack of training on their part? Incompetence? 
**Scott:** I'm just surmising now because I never really talked to them or asked them that, but I would say that the big thing was that a lot of the South Vietnamese soldiers were drafted, and who wants to fight? Just think about what it would have been like to be a South Vietnamese soldier who wants to fight with foreign troops against your own countrymen. Maybe they didn't fight good because they didn't believe in it. Maybe they didn't fight good because they were forced to be there, and they really didn't support the government that was imposed on them by the U. S. It was like the U. S. ran the show and the South Vietnamese understood that. 
**Arash:** You say that you never really talked to them. Was this because you were in separate units, or was there just no sense of cooperation?
**Scott:** We didn't fight with Vietnamese units in the sense that we fought together. We would have operations that we did, but there were units called CAC units and they were combined action units where a group of Marines and a group of Vietnamese would work together. And there was an incident that happened where a CAC unit was overrun, and our unit went to go reinforce them. And when we got there, all of the Marines were dead. There were no dead South Vietnamese soldiers. There were no dead Viet Cong. All of the weapons were missing. All of the ammunition was missing. All of the radios were missing. And it was obvious to us that it was an inside job, if you will. And it really made me hate the South Vietnamese as much as I hated the North Vietnamese. I hated all the Vietnamese.
**Arash:** There seems to be a constant sense in war of military inefficiency. Did you ever feel frustrated about how the leadership was conducting the war, or did you feel differently than the leadership in terms of how things should be done?
**Scott:** I'm not quite sure how the leadership felt, but there were things. In 1966 I had an M14 in Vietnam, and I was trained on an M14 in military boot camp. In 1967, they took away our M14s and they gave us M16s. Without any training on how to take it apart, how to clean it, how it operates. We were, we really liked getting these new rifles because the M14 was heavy and the M16 was light. The M14 was semi-automatic. The M16 gave you an option of full-automatic or semi-automatic. And because it was light and the ammo was light, you could carry a lot more ammo. And firing full-automatic, we called it rock and roll, so everybody could fire rock and roll. So, now everybody is just spraying the hell out of the place. So, we got these new weapons, and there was an occasion where, after we got these new weapons, there was a marine unit that was pinned down in a rice paddy and we went to help. I moved forward and I saw a sand dune that I could reach and so I moved forward to this sand dune under fire. It was high and I could overlook and see the pinned down Marines, and I could see the other rice patty where the Viet Cong were shooting at the Marines. I could give those Marines cover from where I was, and there was a Viet Cong and he put his head up. I aimed right at his face, and he looked at me right in the eye. I went and my rifle didn't fire. Then I dropped down and the rifle hadn't ejected the last round that I fired. Do you know how a rifle works? 
**Arash:** No.
**Scott:** Okay in a semi-automatic rifle, you have a magazine, and it has, in this case, 20 bullets, and that goes into the bottom of the rifle. Then you pull your bolt back, and the bolt goes forward, and it pushes one of those bullets into the barrel. Then when you squeeze the trigger, that bullet goes off, the slide comes back, it kicks out that empty shell, and goes forward again, putting another bullet in. And that allows you to fire. I had fired, and then when I saw this guy... I aimed at his face, he looked at me, and I pulled the trigger, and it just went click. Then I ducked down, and my old cartridge didn't get ejected out, it was stuck in the barrel. So then, out of the back of the rifle, there's a cleaning kit, so I opened it up, I pulled out my cleaning kit, and got a rod that you use for cleaning the barrel. And I put the rod together and put the rod down the barrel to knock out that old shell. Then I could put another shell in. So now I'm firing single shot. And after each shot, I have to pull the bolt back, put the rod down and knock out the rifle the shell. That was really aggravating, and it made me really upset that we had these rifles that weren't functioning properly. I specifically remember that, and I was really upset about that.
**Arash:** You spoke earlier about the event of you being ambushed in your first couple weeks in Vietnam, were there any other notable events while you were there that stick out to you?
**Scott:** There's a lot of them. One of the most notable ones to me, when I think about Vietnam, and I have problems with some of the things that I remember. One of the main things you remember is friends that get killed and it's one minute you're talking and everything's cool, and the next minute they're lying there dead. And that's really a lot. It's more than I can articulate, how that makes you feel. But you don't want to get killed. The fighting's still going on. And your wounded friends and dead friends are being picked up and put on helicopters and sent back, and you're still focusing on what you're doing. And losing friends is really hard. The second thing is, there was an incident where a Viet Cong nurse was captured by Marines and the Marines that captured her, they raped her, and they brutalized her. And the brutalizing included things like slicing her breasts and putting foreign objects in her vagina. And so, four of us, myself, the lieutenant, the lieutenant's radio operator…maybe it was just three of us, came upon the scene, and it was horrific. The lieutenant started yelling at these guys for what they were doing. In the meantime, while the lieutenant was admonishing these four marines, the woman was alive and she was asking for water. And so, I got down on my knees. She's all cut up. She's bleeding. She's got a foreign object in her vagina, a tree branch. And I gave her a drink of water. And I'm looking in her eyes and she's looking in my eyes and we have to move on. We're on an operation. We can't sit around. We got to fucking move on. And the lieutenant said to the guys that had done this to her to kill her and let's move on. And none of them would do it. None of them would shoot her. So, the lieutenant looked at me and said, “Artie”, and I put the gun to her head, looked her in the eye, and I shot her, and I killed her. And I think about that, that looking her in the eye, and it bothers me. And I try to rationalize it by thinking that I put her out of her misery, and that she was better off after I killed her. That's one of the images that I have that disturbs me. 
**Arash:** You mentioned how hard it was to lose friends. Did that make it more difficult for you to want to create connections with people, because at any moment they could be gone? How did that affect you emotionally?
**Scott:** It didn't really affect me. It did affect some people. First of all, my job is a forward observer. So, I'm attached to an infantry unit and there's me and my radio operator. We're a team, and we're really tight, and we're really good friends. I was always really close with my team, and I was always really close with the other FO teams. Those of us that were forward observers, we had radios because we use the radios to call in artillery and airstrikes. And as a forward observer, our job is to find enemy movements, radio their positions and let the artillery in the aircraft take them out. We're from a battalion, and a battalion has four companies. In our battalion, 1st Battalion, 1st Marines, we had Alpha Battery, Alpha Company, Bravo Company, Charlie Company and Delta Company. And I was the FO for Charlie Company. So my call sign was “Enunciate 63”. In 63, the 3 meant that I was with the third company, which would be Charlie Company, and the six meant that I was the person in charge of that. So, I was “Enunciate 6 3”. My friend Jim Fyfe was “Enunciate 6 4”. He was with Delta Company. Us FOs, because we had radios, we would come up at night and we would talk to each other to see how each other were doing. We gave ourselves new call signs because we weren't allowed to do what we were doing. We were not allowed to use the military radio to bullshit with each other. So, we would come up on a frequency that was not being used and our call signs were friendship. So, because I'm Jewish, I was called “Friendship Jew”. Jim was Greek, so he was “Friendship Greek”. We had a black guy named Tolliver, and he was called “Friendship Spliff”, and we had an Irish guy and he was “Friendship Mick”. We would get up, and we talked to each other to see how each other were doing. 
We kept in touch with each other, and we were really close. When something would happen to one of those guys, the rest of us would all feel bad about it. We didn't know that many of the infantry guys that we worked with, but as attachments, we're under the guidance of the company commander who would be a captain or a platoon commander who would be a lieutenant. Generally, as a forward observer, what you really are is you're a map reader. My job is to be able to read a map and spot any of the positions, see where they are on the map and call-in artillery on them, and make sure we don’t have artillery landing on our own guys. So, you have to be paying attention and make sure you're really doing the right thing. A lot of times, the lieutenants and the platoon commanders would call us “Artie” because we were from artillery unit. They would say, “Hey, Artie, where are we?”, and I'd look at my map and I'd say, “I think we're right here, sir”. I had a close relationship with those lieutenants. At night we would have radio watch so some people would sleep. The people had to stay on the radios. Because we had radios and the command had radios, we would sleep together, and we would take turns on who's up at night and listening on the radios. And so, we had that kind of camaraderie. I think except for maybe police officers and firemen, nobody would understand about that kind of camaraderie and it's a kind of friendship and love that you have for one another that civilians don't have.
**Arash:** Were there any instances of shell shock or PTSD that you came across while you were there?
**Scott:** Not from that particular incident. But there was a guy named Chico, a Mexican American. And actually, we were really good friends and we called him “Beaner”, because supposedly Mexicans live on beans. On the night of April 18th, when we were overrun and attacked my third week there, he was wounded. And I saw him being attacked, but there was nothing I could do. Think of our compound as a square, and in each corner of the square there is an outpost, which is made of sandbags and wood. Inside each outpost was two machine guns and on top of each outpost would be two Marines sitting on top and two Marines inside the outpost sleeping. I was on top of my outpost on April 18th. Beaner was on top of his, and when we got attacked, I could see that they took over his outpost and they were standing on top of his outpost, and they were shooting at him and the guy next to him. I was defending my outpost. There was fighting going on between us. I couldn't shoot across the fighting to try to help because I might hit him. And when Beaner came back from the hospital, he had PTSD. He had a really hard time. He drank a lot and because he and I had experienced the fight, when they would think something bad was going to happen, they'd send me and him, because we had experience. He got to drinking, and I remember one night that he fired his weapon into the officer's tent, and they sent him to a place where we sent people who had combat fatigue. It wasn't called that back then, but it was a medical place for people with psychological problems. I can't remember the name of it.
**Arash:** You mentioned you were there from March of ’66. What time did you leave Vietnam?
**Scott:** November of ‘67. 20 months. 
**Arash:** Looking back at it, how do you find yourself to have changed from March of ’66 to November of ’67? 
**Scott:** I gained more confidence during this period of time. I gained a greater understanding of the importance of paying attention. I would say probably 80 percent of our casualties came from mines and booby traps. Just imagine when you go to school, you drive your car to school, and you park in the parking lot and then you walk across that parking lot to the building. Okay. So, let's say that everyday walking from the car across the parking lot to the building, different kids who park there, step on things and blow up. How many days would you be willing to park your car in the parking lot, get out and walk across it? Every day, we walked across the field. Every day, people stepped on things and blew up. That's just a tremendous amount of pressure. But you can't really think about it because then you're not going to be focused on what you're supposed to be looking at. But it's just a tremendous amount of pressure knowing that each step could be your last step. 
**Arash:** Was it difficult for you to have that mental shift in not thinking about that?
**Scott:** Not for me personally. I was totally focused. My presence of mind was at 100%. And I'm a forward observer. I'm supposed to be observing stuff. I noticed everything. I'm looking where I walk, I'm looking in the trees, a broken branch, anything out of place. My life depends on not missing anything, and the lives of the people I'm with. I was super focused, and I would say my fitness report from Vietnam says, “Sergeant Camil is extremely cool under fire and can be trusted to accomplish any mission assigned to him”. I can't explain the reasoning really, but when we would get in a firefight, I wasn't worried about getting shot. I don't really know why I wasn't worried about getting shot, but I would just stand there. I would take my time. I would aim and I would shoot, and I would hit my targets. I was more afraid of the mines and the booby traps. I wasn't afraid of getting shot. So, in firefights I did really good because in firefights, I had someone to be against I could kill. With mines and booby traps, there was nothing that I could do, but not step on one.
**Arash:** Was it frustrating not being able to see the enemy you were fighting? That sense of fighting a ghost.
**Scott:** Oh, it was really frustrating because even when they would hit us, they would hit us, and they would just melt into the jungle and disappear. They were really good at that. They would pop out of nowhere, hit us, and then they would disappear. And they'd been fighting wars there for a long time. They fought the Japanese, they fought the French, they knew where all the hiding places were, and they knew what they were doing. We had all of this kind of equipment. Helicopters would take out our wounded. They would bring us new people. They would bring us food, water, ammunition. And when I first got there, I thought, “Oh, we're going to kick these guys ass really easy. They walk around in sandals. They don't carry very many supplies. They're not carrying radios. They don't have any artillery to call on us”. I thought it was going to be a slam dunk. So, I was really surprised. By the time that I went home, we really weren't accomplishing anything. It was just all about killing more of them than they killed of us. 
**Arash:** There are a lot of stories from World War II of reciprocal mutilation and sadistic brutality amongst the Japanese and Americans. You’ve talked about that already from the American side, but did the Vietnamese also partake in that brutality?
**Scott:** Yes. We would find Marines that had been tortured and brutalized. And you know, for me, that made me think, “I don't want to get captured. I definitely don't want to get captured. I'm going to fight to the last bullet. I'm going to fight as hard as I can because if they capture me, I'm going to end up like that. And I definitely don't want that”. 
**Arash:** Was that the same sense amongst the Vietnamese, was there a a sense of aversion towards surrendering or getting captured?
**Scott:** I never saw that North Vietnamese ever surrender. And we, the U. S. military, would drop leaflets from planes all over the ground, and the leaflets were called Chu Hoi Passes. And they said... If you turn yourself in, you will be treated kindly, and you will not be hurt. And Viet Cong would come out of the jungle holding a Chu Hoi pass, and we would just shoot him down. When you're fighting, it's a fluid kind of thing and you're moving. And in my idea, what are we going to do with prisoners? If we leave the prisoners behind, somebody's got to stay behind and take care of them and then we're going to have less men to take care of our job. If we take them with us and we come across an enemy unit that's larger than ours, we're not going to be able to hide and be quiet because these prisoners are going to make noise and give away our positions. We can't leave them because we'll fight them when we come back. And we can't take them with us, so the only thing we can do is kill them. 
**Arash:** Do you find that the pamphlets were then purposely deceitful? Or were there good intentions, but it was just nonpractical? 
**Scott:** So, I wouldn't know. That's above my pay grade. The people that decided to make these things and drop them, I don't know if they were honest about it…Since there's one object in war and that's to win, that's the only object in war. Really there's no such thing as cheating. There may be rules of war, but if there were, if there really were rules of war, wouldn't the first rule be, you have to solve your problems without murdering each other?
**Arash:** Did you see any drug or alcohol use while you were there, or did most of that happen later on in the war? 
**Scott:** I think most of that stuff happened after Tet. I discovered marijuana in Vietnam, I smoked marijuana, but I never smoked marijuana when I was going to be on guard duty or when I was out in the field. When we would come back, and we'd have a couple of days off where we didn't have to do anything, then I could smoke some marijuana. I didn't see any other drugs. I wouldn't even know what heroin looked like, so I didn't see it, but when I came back from Vietnam to the States, then I saw a lot of drug use in the Marine Corps. 
**Arash:** So, you say that you left Vietnam in November of ’67. You’ve mentioned that you also traveled to Europe, and it was there that you realized the sentiments of foreigners towards American policy. Could you talk a bit about that?
**Scott:** Because of the propaganda in my upbringing, the belief in my head was that the whole world looked up to the United States, and everybody wanted to be like us. And it was okay for us to go around the world and change the governments that weren't like us, so that the people that wanted to be like us could be like us. That's really imperialism. I didn't know that name at the time, but I thought it was okay for us to go around and make the rest of the world like us. Then when I went to Europe, it turned out that the countries we went to, and it was really strange because the countries we went to, they did not support the war in Vietnam, but they weren't mad at me as an American Vietnam veteran who's over there. They were at mad at my government for having the war, but they didn't hold it personally against me. And that was different than how I thought, because I hated all the Russians, I hated all the Chinese, because that's just how I was taught to view their evil, and that's what we're supposed to do. Then when I was in Europe, it was way different. And they weren't like that, and they didn't think what we were doing was right. And they didn't hate the Vietnamese. But the most important thing that touched my brain was that they were able to separate me as a person from the conduct of my government.
**Arash:** We touched on it earlier, but was it difficult for you to transition back into civilian life after your time in Vietnam?
**Scott:** After I got out of the Marine Corps, there were a lot of difficulties for me to start with my whole life. I had never thought for myself. My whole life, my parents were in charge of me, the rabbi told me what to do, my schoolteachers told me what to do, my parents provided my food, my clothing, my housing, my medical support. When I got out of the Marine Corps, it was the first time that I was in charge of myself, and I didn't have any experience being in charge of myself. Like, “Where am I going to live?”, “How am I going to pay rent?”, “How am I going to get food?”, “What am I going to do for a living?” All of these things that I didn't have a clue about, what I was going to do. The first thing I thought, my stepfather and both of my brothers were cops, so I thought “Damn, killing people is fun. It's exciting. I'll be a cop. That'll be an exciting job and I'll still get to kill people”. And so, I applied to be a police officer and I made good grades on the tests, and because I have two purple hearts, I got extra points for that. 
The last thing they did before the hiring was a lie detector test. In this lie detector test, they said, “Look, just be honest”. And so, I was totally honest with them, and I trusted them. They said, “Have you ever murdered anyone?”, and I said, “Sure. All the time”. “Where”? “In Vietnam”. “Have you ever murdered anyone in the United States”? “No”. “Okay. That's okay”. Now, I didn't think about till later on that it was okay to murder people in one place, but not somewhere else. Later on, I thought about that concept. But at the time, I didn't. Then they said “Have you ever committed arson”? I said, “Oh yeah, we burn villages all the time”. They said, “Where”? And I said, “In Vietnam”, they said, “Have you committed arson in the United States”? I said, “Oh no”. And they said, “That's okay. Have you ever stolen stuff”? “Oh, sure. We stole stuff from the Vietnamese all the time”. “Did you ever do it in the United States”? “No”. “That's okay”. And then it came to drug use, “Did you use this drug, that drug”? And it was like “No”. Then it came to Vietnam. “Have you ever smoked marijuana”? And I said, “Yes”. And they said, “Where'd you start smoking marijuana”? And I said, “Vietnam”. And they said, “Have you smoked marijuana since you came home”? And I said, “Yes”. “In the last year”? “Yes”. “In the last six months”? “Yes”. “In the last 30 days”? “Yes”. “In the last week”? “Yes”. “In the last 24 hours”? “Yes”. And then they said, “We can't hire you. You have no respect for the law”. And I couldn't believe it. I thought, of all the things that I had done, smoking marijuana had to be the least harmful thing, and that's what I'm being punished for. They wouldn't hire me. 
Now I'm stuck again. How am I going to get money? What am I going to do? So, I knew that I could get money on the G. I. Bill if I went to school. I didn't think I would like school because I hated high school because it was so authoritarian. But I needed the money. So, I applied for college and there was a rule in Florida that if you were an honorably discharged veteran, it didn't matter what your high school grades were, they had to accept you into college and then your grades counted, and if you want to stay in college, you had to make the grades. So, I got accepted to college and I went to college. It was four years later. I was a lot more mature than I was in high school, and I loved college. I did really good in college.
**Arash:** You mentioned earlier that you didn’t consume any news media prior to going to Vietnam, did that change once you returned? Were you more inclined to be politically aware?
**Scott:** Yes, and it was a slow process, which I'm ashamed of how long it took me to get my shit together. But I'm home from Vietnam, I'm out of the service, I'm watching news on TV, and I know what they're saying isn't true. I'm listening to news on the radio, and I know what they're saying isn't true. I'm reading the newspaper, and what they're saying isn't true. And so, it made me start thinking if what we're doing is right, why are they saying we're not doing it? It's just a normal question like, “Why would that be? Why are they saying that we're not killing women and children? Of course, we're killing women and children. They're fucking commies. Those women are making more babies. They're communist baby factories. Those babies are going to grow up to fight my children…We're going to knock those fucking communists out. All of them”. So, we don't have to worry about our kids having to fight them. 
**Scott:** I was still more interested in my future. “What am I going to do now? How am I going to pay for things”? So the teachers knew I was a Vietnam veteran and I would wear my tropical jacket with my sergeant chevrons on it to school because there were anti-war people. And I hated the anti-war people. When I was in Vietnam, I read an article about how Joan Baez and her friends were having an anti-war concert in San Francisco, and how they were collecting blood from Americans, and that blood was going through Canada to North Vietnam. And I read that article, and I thought, damn, I could get killed by some fucking communist with American blood in them. That enraged me and made me hate the anti-war movement and made me hate the demonstrators. I never thought about what their point was. I just hated them. 
So, in college I would wear my Marine Corps uniform. And the kids that were against the war had black armbands on and I would bump into them. I’d try to pick fights with them. And I just really hated them. A professor of mine called me aside and he said, “We're the aggressor in Vietnam. We're actually the person who's doing something wrong, not the Vietnamese”. And I couldn't believe that a professor would say that to me. And he gave me something to read. He gave me some books to read. And I started reading stuff and then I saw that, “Wow, he's right”. We're the ones that violated the Geneva Accords. We're the aggressors. We're the ones that were wrong. And it upset me because I always wanted to be the guy in the white hat. I wanted to be the good guy. I didn't want to be the bad guy. And now I'm reading that I was the bad guy. And that really upset me. It made me angry at my high school teachers. It made me angry at my government. It made me angry at my parents because all of them promulgated this lie about why we were there and what we stood for and what we were doing. And I came to the idea that I couldn't really trust the government. I couldn't trust institutions. If I wanted to know the truth, I had to search it out and find it for myself. And that started my questioning of authority and questioning things and taking a different path. 
**Arash:** You talked about watching the news and realizing that they had been lying about the war. Did that make you question everything else that they were saying as well?
**Scott:** Yeah, the press, the government, my teachers in high school and my parents. They all lost credibility. They all lost credibility with me.
**Arash:** You talked about bumping into students on purpose, did you ever have long form discussions with them? You spoke about getting some books from your professor and reading them, did that ever influence you to speak to the anti-war people at your school?
**Scott:** No, I didn't. But before that, when I was in the Marine Corps, after I came back from Vietnam, the Marine Corps sent me to the University of Western Carolina in Cullowhee. And my discussion for two days was on why the war in Vietnam was right. So, students and professors said to me “You kill women and children?” I said, “Of course I did. They were fucking commies, and they were hostile towards me”. And I couldn't understand why they were hostile towards me because I was doing my job. I was doing what America sent me over there to do. Back then you had to be 21 to vote and so I had my 20th and 21st birthdays in Vietnam. When I went to Vietnam, I wasn't part of the decision making about our country. I wasn't old enough to vote. And some of these people in college that were attacking me were old enough to vote. So, I was mad at them because they voted for the leaders that sent me over there, and now you're criticizing what I did. You guys got bad leaders. You guys have as much responsibility for what's happening in Vietnam as I did. And so, I was hostile about that. 
**Arash:** Did you have any particular sentiments or opinions about the leaders at that time, such as Lyndon Johnson, McNamara, and Westmoreland?
**Scott:** Not until I got involved in the anti-war movement. Once I got involved in the anti-war movement, then I'm reading stuff and I'm learning a lot more. And then I learned about McNamara and a lot of stuff that I didn't know about. 
**Arash:** Were you politically active during the ’68 election?
**Scott:** I'm embarrassed to say that I voted in ’68, I was still in the Marine Corps, and I voted for George Wallace and Curtis LeMay. I thought that Wallace would take care of the racial problems, and I thought that Curtis LeMay would take care of the Vietnamese problems. So, you could see that I was really very right wing. And actually, people in the military tend to be very right wing here in our country. 
**Arash:** What were your general thoughts on some of the Democratic leaders during that time, such as RFK, Eugene McCarthy, or Hubert Humphrey?
**Scott:** I didn’t really even think about them. I didn't think about the opposition. I was going to vote for the person who was going to end the war by killing the Vietnamese and end racism. And now I can say by brutal tactics, but I wasn't thinking about brutal tactics back then. I just remember fighting in Vietnam and I'm seeing race riots burning down cities in the United States, and that made me really upset. 
**Arash:** Did you have any thoughts then on Nixon in ‘68?
**Scott:** No, I didn’t. So, in ’68, I voted for Wallace. In 72, which is the next election, I voted for McGovern.
**Arash:** You’ve mentioned in the past that while you were in college you went to see Jane Fonda speak on campus. Could you tell that story and talk about how that got you involved in activism?
**Scott:** I read in the student newspaper that Jane Fonda was coming to speak, and she was Barbarella. She was a movie star. She was famous and she was hot, and I wanted to see what she looked like. So, I went down to Grand Pond where the event was, but there were thousands and thousands of people when I got there. So, the pond is down in the low area and the ground comes up, and then levels out. And so, she's down there and I'm way up here in the high ground and I can see the spec of Jane Fonda down there. But we're smoking marijuana, we're playing frisbee, we're having a good time. And I really wasn't paying attention to her. And then somehow some of her words grabbed my attention.
And she said that the United States government was lying to the public about the conduct of the war in Vietnam and that it was the duty of patriotic Vietnam veterans to tell the Americans the truth. That democracy works best when the public has the truth. I thought those words just captured me and I thought “I'm a patriotic Vietnam veteran. I believe in democracy. I believe the public has the right to know what's being done in their name, with their money. They have the right to know the truth”. And so that captured me. And she said, “If there are any Vietnam veterans that would be willing to share their stories, to come forward”. So, I went forward. And they asked me was I in Vietnam? And I said, “Yes”. And they asked me what branch of service I was, and I said, “I was in the Marines”. And they asked me what was my rank? And I said, “I was a sergeant”. And they asked me when I was there, and I said 66 and 67. They asked me for my phone number. I gave them my  phone number and then I went back to playing frisbee and smoking a joint. 
Then a couple of days later, I get a phone call from a guy named Michael Oliver. And he says “We would like you to come to Detroit. We're having an investigation on the conduct of the war in Vietnam and a bunch of Vietnam veterans are coming to tell the public about what's really going on in Vietnam and we'd like you to come”. And I said, “Detroit, how am I supposed to get to Detroit? I'm poor. I don't have any money. I don't have a car. I don't have any way to get to Detroit”. And they said, “We'll send you a plane ticket”. So, they sent me a plane ticket and I flew to Detroit for the Winter Soldier Investigation. The most important part of what I just told you is people who've seen the Winter Soldier Investigation…Right wingers who have seen it say, “Oh, this was made up of a bunch of guys that got together, and they put this shit together and it's not true”. But the fact of the matter is that when they invited me to come, they had no idea what I was going to say. They had no idea what I had seen. It was not like that. That they had an agenda and I was going to fit into their agenda. All of those top people that criticize Winter Soldier and say it was produced with an agenda, they're wrong. Because those people had no idea what I was going to say. 
Then you saw from Winter Soldier, when I first got there, Ken Campbell's sitting there and he's vetting people. And he says, “Sergeant Camil. Hey, I know this guy. Oh, we're trying to find some people who knew about a village wiped out in ‘Nam. That was right after I got there. That's when you were there”. And I said, “Oh yeah, I remember that”. And we start talking about that. What went on at Winter Soldier was not planned or contrived.
The focus about what I spoke about at Winter Soldier was based on the questions I was asked. They didn't say, “Tell us about Vietnam”. They said “Did you ever see women and children killed? Did you ever see prisoners tortured? Did you ever see the use of artillery harassment and interdiction fires? Did you ever see the use of napalm on people? Did you ever see the use of white phosphorus on people? Did you ever see my prisoners tortured?” So, I answered the questions that they asked me and that gave a picture. And the picture was mostly about the brutality and the bad things that occurred. It wasn't really a full picture of everything, but it was a picture of mostly what went on. 
**Arash:** There are a lot of veterans in that documentary who tell their unique stories and experiences. Just listening to those experiences, was there anything that shocked you?
**Scott:** The main thing for me was, I only knew what I did in Vietnam, and what the unit I was in did when I was present. The things that I actually saw and did. I had no idea what was going on in the rest of Vietnam. I didn't know what other units were doing. I didn't know what the Army was doing, or the Navy or the Air Force or even other Marine Corps units. I just knew what we did. And then at Winter Soldier, I got to see, “Oh, they're doing the same thing in the Army”. “Oh, the Navy's doing the same thing”. I got to see a larger picture and I got to have an understanding that other people were doing the same things that I was doing. 
There was that part. And then I saw that after 1968, the attitude of the veterans was a little bit different. And I think the reason for that was really that when I went to Vietnam, we thought we were going to win. We'd kick ass and we'd be done. And then after 1968, after Tet, it became obvious that that wasn't going to happen. And you had veterans who were refusing to fight. Veteran units that would go out and instead of going to where they were supposed to go, they'd go out a couple of hundred meters and just hide somewhere and come back in later and say that they went out and did their patrol. But they weren't willing to risk themselves. I saw those kinds of differences.
Also, the really good little piece that was in there on racism where this black guy talks about the racial aspects. I had never really thought about that because I didn't really think about race in Vietnam. Because in the Marine Corps, you're taught in boot camp, nobody's white, nobody's black, nobody's red, nobody's yellow, we're all fucking green Marines. So, green was our color. And the discussions of racism took place. And then I was able to look back and think about things and think about the makeup of the Marines and the different jobs the Marines had and the black Marines mostly were in the infantry, and mostly had the shitty jobs. I didn't really notice that so much when I was there, but I got to think about that when I came back after, after seeing that, that talk at Winter Soldier and realizing, oh that's really true. 
But when I was in Vietnam some of my closest friends were people of color. Two people in particular that were both killed that I was very close with was a Marine named Corporal Dickerson and he was from New Jersey. He was just the nicest kid. He was such a really nice kid. And he got killed. And when I came back from Vietnam, I went and visited his family. Then I had another good friend from high school named John Berrios, and he was Latin, and he was killed. So, I was really affected by those two deaths, and I visited his parents when I came home also.
**Arash:** What are your thoughts and feelings looking back at the footage of yourself in the Winter Soldier documentary?
**Scott:** First of all, it's hard for me to watch. It's really hard for me to watch. I can't really watch Winter Soldier without crying. And not only that, the music at the end, that music will make me cry. It's just hard. But I think that it's really important for civilians to understand about war. And if civilians understood about war, and when I talk about civilians, I'm talking about American civilians, because they're the ones who war is waged in their names. But they really don't have a concept about what war is like unless they're a veteran. All the countries where the wars are waged, the civilians there have an understanding of that. And the fact of the matter is, all of the wars of the 20th century and past the 20th century, the overwhelming majority of casualties are civilians, right? There’s this belief that in war, that if you make the civilians suffer enough, they will raise up against their government and get their government to stop the war. So, you kill the civilians too, so they'll put pressure on the government. I think that's one of the big tactics in World War II, with all the bombings, especially the fire bombings as well…Now let me just say that a lot of that was done against the Japanese, we didn't do that against white people.
**Arash:** On that note, how different do you think the sentiment towards brutality would have been if the war had not taken place in Vietnam, but in a country where the people looked more like yourself?
**Scott:** So, I don't have a clue. American soldiers fighting Germans in World War Two were white against white, but I think that it would be harder in Vietnam. It was really easy because you could see what they look like and people that look different, you just killed them. But if people look the same, you'd have to pay more attention about what's going on. And I think this is bad to say, but I'm selfish. I really want to live, and if I feel that my life is threatened, I'm going to do what I feel I need to do to protect my life. And in Vietnam, it was easy because everybody that looked different, I just killed. If people looked the same as me, it would take me more time to distinguish them, and that extra time would be enough time for them to get off the first shot.
**Arash:** You spoke as well about the culture and way of living being so different, do you think if it had been the case where the culture was similar to yours, it would have made things more difficult? For instance, you relating someone you see there to someone back home, as opposed to you having no connections emotionally to the Vietnamese.
**Scott:** I think that initially going into it, I might have a different idea. But after I'd see my first friend killed or wounded, it would be more about survival. And I wouldn't really care what they looked like. It would be a little bit harder, but if they're a threat, I'm going to fight them.
**Arash:** Could you talk about what resulted for you from the Winter Soldier investigations?
**Scott:** So, the last day of Winter Soldier, when it was over, this same guy that called me, Mike Oliver, called for all of the veterans to come into this room for a meeting. And in that room was all the veterans who had testified. And he said, “We've been here for 3 days, you've heard what's gone on. What do you think about it? What do we? What should we do about it”? And it was at that meeting that we decided to form Vietnam Veterans Against the War as a national organization. 
So, Vietnam Veterans Against the War had already been an organization since, I think, 1967. I'd never heard of it before. But now they were involved in the Winter Soldier investigation, and so we decided at that meeting that we were going to organize against the war and that we were going to educate the American public about the war in Vietnam. So, we divided the country into 28 parts that we called regions and those of us that were there that were willing to take on leadership roles, took on leadership roles, and I became the regional coordinator for Florida, Alabama, and Georgia. The 28 regional coordinators wrote a constitution, we wrote up bylaws and if you look at those bylaws and the things that we are objectives, you'd see that those objectives stood for women's rights, stood up against racism, a lot more stuff than just the war. 
We organized veterans in those regions to educate the public on the war, and the idea was that if we have Winter Soldier investigations in different cities across the United States, and have the veterans that are testifying at those investigations be the veterans from those cities, then the people in those cities would hear people that they knew, their own citizens, talking about what was going on. And so, that would be a perfect way to educate, because before, the people that were against the war, the government would say “they're communist sympathizers, they're people who are not willing to serve their country. They're people that don't know what they're talking about”. So, they couldn't say that we didn't know what we were talking about. They couldn't say that we weren't willing to serve our country. The arguments that they used against the anti-war movement; they couldn't use against us. 
So that put us in a position to become the point or the leadership of the anti-war movement, because the press and the public gave us more credibility than they gave the regular anti-war movement. I'm not saying that the anti-war wasn't credible. I'm saying that's how they were looked at. And once we became part of it, things got looked at a little bit differently. Then Playboy magazine gave us a free full-page ad and, in that ad, 20, 000 Vietnam veterans responded and said they wanted to work against the war. So, then I got a list from Playboy of all of the veterans in Florida, Alabama, and Georgia who had written in and said they wanted to work against the war. Now, this is before we had email, so this was all done by snail mail and telephone. I wrote a letter to all of the veterans in Atlanta, Georgia that were on that list. And I sent each of them a copy of the list of all the veterans in that area. And I said, “Look, contact each other, set up a meeting. And I'll come and help you organize”. And I did that in cities all over Alabama, Florida, and Georgia. Then the first thing I did, I'd go to those areas and organize those veterans. I would say, “Okay, let's do a Winter Soldier investigation in your city”. 
We started having Winter Soldier investigations in different cities around the country to help educate the public…Of course, we had demonstrations in the street. We had a March on Washington where we threw our medals away. The first time in the history of any nation where soldiers of a nation marched on their capital during a war, denounced the war, and threw their medals away. That was quite historic. And for me, it was really hard because those medals were all I had to show for my sacrifices, and they meant a lot to me. And they sat on the fireplace. Then when we went on the demonstration to Washington, I brought them with me. But I wasn't sure I was going to be able to really throw them away because they meant a lot to me. And then when I came to the front of the line, it was my turn, and I threw them away. But I didn't make that final decision until I was there. 
**Arash:** What did throwing those away symbolize for you?
**Scott:** It was like cutting off the umbilical cord between me and the government. Now I'm thinking for myself, and I'm doing what I think is best.
**Arash:** Did Americans, like Europeans, tend to separate the blame for the war between the government and veterans?
**Scott:** It was a mixed bag. In the beginning, there was some hostility towards us. We were baby killers. And there was hostility towards us. But Once things went on, the anti-movement became aware that we were really helpful and they embraced us. It was a struggle at first, but finally we were embraced very heartily. 
**Arash:** You were on Nixon’s enemies list, could you table a bit about that?
**Scott:** I don't know how they compiled the list or any of that kind of stuff. I was against Nixon. I was against the war. And in order for there to be an enemies list against us, it meant that they recognized that we were there. And that our actions were enough that they had to take action to do something about trying to, as they use in their language, “neutralize us”. And as federal agents came to Gainesville and shot me, and I was charged with possession and delivery of drugs, assaulting federal agents, resisting arrest with violence. A federal jury found me not guilty, and I represented myself and recommended that the agents be indicted for attempted murder and of course nothing happened to the agents, but it made me aware that when you're working against a war or for climate change or anything, that's really a big important thing. You work one year, and you work another year, and the problem is still existing. There's not a lot of positive reinforcement on to make you want to stay in the fight. 
When I mow the yard, I go out there, spend four hours on the mower, and when I'm done, it smells really good. It looks really good. And that gives me positive reinforcement, it’s a reward for my efforts. When you're working against the war, where's the reward for your efforts? The war goes on another year. So, when they started coming after me and arresting me, they were doing that to try to intimidate me. I'm a marine sergeant, a combat marine sergeant. You're not going to intimidate me. And so, every time I got arrested, that became my positive reinforcement because I felt if I wasn't being effective, they wouldn't be coming after me. And the fact that they were coming after me said to me, “I'm on the right track and to continue doing this behavior”. So, they were trying to quell me. And instead, they were energizing me. 
**Arash:** Was there any sense of paranoia for you, feeling that they were coming after you as you were doing these things?
**Scott:** It wasn’t paranoia because it existed. We knew that they were after the anti-war movement. But we're combat veterans, there's no way in hell they're going to intimidate us. And so, they can come after us all they want, but it gave me more energy.
**Arash:** Could you talk a bit about the lead-up into the ’72 Republican convention and the subsequent Gainesville 8 trial? 
**Scott:** We decided as a national organization veteran, Vietnam Veterans Against the War, we would go to the Democratic and Republican conventions as veterans and protest the war and try to get them to make a platform policy against the war. We wanted the war to end, and we wanted to put as much pressure as we could on the Republican and Democratic candidates to end the war. 
We went down there to protest and to let them know that we were veterans of the war. The American public is being fed lies about the war. Th war is wrong, and our actions in the war are wrong, and the war should end right away. So we were heavily infiltrated, which I didn't really know at the time. You could come to me and say, “Scott, I'm a Vietnam veteran, I'm against the war, I want to work against the war”. Boom, you're in. I don't have a way to get on a computer. We didn't even have fucking computers to check out and see who you are really. Are you really an undercover cop? Are you really FBI? Who are you really? I took you at face value. You came and said you're a veteran, you're against the war. Okay, let me see your DD 214. So, you show me your DD 214, which is a form that every soldier gets when they get out of the military. And it shows that they served in the military, what years they served, what their rank was and what their foreign service was. So, they showed you that and they're in the organization. But many of them were undercover agents, and their job was to make us look bad, and to get us to do things that would make us lose our credibility. One of these agents in particular, his name was Lemur. He was one of the 28 regional coordinators that ran the organization. So, several of the 28 coordinators that ran the organization were also undercover operatives, but we didn't know that. 
So, under the Constitution of Vietnam Veterans Against the War, when an action takes place, in any state, the regional coordinator of that state becomes responsible for the demonstrations. So that responsibility would include things like getting a permit, and those kinds of things. And Lemur told me that he had information that, when we were down on Miami Beach, the government was going to shoot someone at the convention. That they were going to blame it on the anti-war people. That they were going to raise the five drawbridges that connected Miami Beach, Florida from the mainland, and that they were going to wipe out the anti-war people. 
I'm in charge of security because the demonstrations are in Florida. So, it was my plan to do something about it. You plan for the worst and then whatever happens, you're ready. So, my plan called for causing actions that would take the government off of the demonstrators. In the planning of what actions, we would do to protect the demonstrators, those actions called for taking control of those five drawbridges and blowing up the mechanisms, so the drawbridges would stay down so people could leave. 
So, after I came back from Vietnam, when I was stationed at Camp Lejeune, I became a riot control non-commissioned officer in charge of riot control for the 10th Marine Regiments. So that's the thousand men I'm in charge of for riot control. And our job is to go to demonstrations and riots and protect public property and the public. And when you're in the Marines on the weekend, guys want to go home and see their girlfriends. And now on the weekends, we can't go home and see our girlfriends because there's some demonstration somewhere and we're on standby to go to the demonstration. So, I gave an instruction to the 10th Marine Regiment. “Okay, we're on standby to go to Washington. We're going to go there. If one person throws a rock or a bottle at us, I want everybody to empty one magazine into the crowd”. So, a magazine is 20 bullets. A thousand men doing 20 bullets each is 20, 000 bullets into the crowd. That would have made Kent State look like nothing. 
My commanding officer found out about that, and I was relieved of duty because that action was against the rules. But that's how much I disliked the anti-war people, and now going down to the convention, I've got a plan on what we are going to do to protect ourselves. In riot control, the first thing you learn is you can only block three sides. You have to give the people you're trying to control an avenue of escape. If you block them in, they have no opportunity for escape. They will fight. We don't want to escalate and have a fight, we want to reduce things. So, you give them access to leave. So, when we were told that the plans called for raising the drawbridges and trapping all the anti-war people on the beach, that was a clear signal to me that they wanted to hurt people. That they didn't want to de-escalate, but they wanted to hurt everybody. 
So, what are we going to do? Contingency plans. How are we going to protect the people if they do that? The first thing we need to do is we need to grab those bridges, and we need to put them down and keep them down, so that the people who are trapped can escape. The second thing we need to do is we need to pull the attackers off of the demonstrators. How are we going to pull the attackers off the demonstrators? We need to give them something else that they have to do. So, if we target police departments, fire departments, and federal buildings in Broward County, Florida, and Dade County, Florida, if we target them, not to hurt people, but just to put them under threat, they will have to leave the beach and the people that they're beating up so as to go back and defend their places. 
So that's what the plans that I wrote called for. And on the plans that I wrote, every single sentence, for every time there was something to do, it would be followed by “This will be done for defensive purposes only. This will be done for defensive purposes only”. So, at the Gainesville Lake trial, the jury got to read the plan that I wrote. And the jury came back in a little under four hours and found us all not guilty.
**Arash:** And you have a story about FBI agents attempting to infiltrate you during the trial?
**Scott:** They did a lot of bad stuff during the trial. When you're have a big trial at a courthouse, the judge will give the defense a room to work out of. So, whenever we’re going to take a recess, we would have a room that we could go and work in. The judge gave us a room right off the main courthouse, and somebody heard some noise in the closet. So, we went and got the marshals and the marshals opened up the closet, unlocked the closet because it was a locked room, and inside the room were two FBI agents with monitoring equipment. 
We felt that was a violation of the attorney client relationship. It was a violation of our rights. And so, we went right to the judge and raised hell about it. The FBI agent said that there were phone lines in that room and that they were there protecting the phone lines from us and that they weren't listening to us or monitoring us. The judge agreed with the FBI agents, the judge accused us of making a mountain out of a molehill, and nothing happened to the agents. But they couldn't go back in the closet.
**Arash:** How much media attention did the trial get while it was going on?
**Scott:** International, and that was great for us. But that ended up causing a schism between us. Now, the government puts on this trial that lasts for about a month and they put on 30 witnesses, I think, and then they rest. And once the government rests, then it's our turn to put on our defense. So, there's eight defendants, three of the defendants are representing themselves, which I'm one of, and then, five of the defendants have attorneys. So, now we're meeting about strategy and there's a difference in opinion between those of us representing ourselves, and the attorneys about what we're going to do and how we're going to do it. 
So, the attorneys felt that the government put on a trial for 30 days, and they didn't prove any of the charges against us. And that we should just rest our case without putting on a defense and we would be found not guilty. And that would be a much stronger statement to the public that without having a defense, the jury still found us not guilty. That would show how political it was. But to two of us, myself and Don Purdue, Don's one of the defendants, and he was a marine like myself, we felt like “What is our job”? Our job is to educate the public. We've been going around the country, showing Winter Soldier, trying to educate the public about the war. Now we have center stage, and we have national press and international press looking at us. Now's our opportunity to talk about body count, search and destroy operations, Agent Orange, all the kinds of stuff that are going on in the war. We've got a platform to educate everybody, and we should use that. There was an argument between us. So, in the end, the lawyers argued “Look the jurors have been locked up away from their families for a month. They've been stuck in hotel rooms and each one of them is guarded by a marshal, and they have no private communications by phone or in person with their children or their husbands or wives or their loved ones. And if we put on a defense, there's going to be another 30 days they're going to be locked away after being locked away from their families and friends for 60 days. Do you think there are any of them that are going to be willing to stay away from their families longer and fight for you? They're going to want to get home, so that's dangerous for us. We should rest”. And that was their argument. And Don and I argued, “Look, we've got center stage now. Now's our chance to educate people. That's our fucking job. Not to have the trial over, but to do the education”. And we were outvoted six to two. And so, we didn't put on a defense. And that caused the two of us not to talk to the other six for a number of years.
**Arash:** Looking back at it, do you find that that was the right decision?
**Scott:** It would be the right decision if the culmination of the right decision was not to go to jail. It would not be the right decision if the right decision was to educate as many people as you could about the conduct of the war. 
**Arash:** You mentioned this earlier as well, but could you talk a bit about the sting operation and being shot?
**Scott:** After I was found not guilty in the Gainesville Eight case, I tried to lay low because I was tired of being arrested and going to jail and being arrested and going to jail. I had been arrested on 18 different charges during that period of time, I was facing death plus 120 years in prison and a large fine. And I won all of those cases. So then one day, someone knocks at my door, and a friend of mine rented the house for me that I lived in, and this woman came to the house, and she knocked on the door. I opened the door, it’s this pretty woman, and she was looking for the person who had rented the house for me. And I said, “Oh, he doesn't live here, but you can come in and you can use the phone and give him a call”. So, she came in and used the phone and, we smoked some marijuana and we snorted some cocaine and we had sex, and I thought “Wow, life is great”. Then we started seeing each other, and she would come and visit me on weekends. Then on one weekend, some friends of hers came to my house and they said…Gosh, her name has slipped from my head…and they said that she was coming to Gainesville for the weekend, and she wanted to make sure that I had coke. 
And they had come into Gainesville to get some Coke. And that I could go with them if I wanted so I could get some Coke…Her name was Barbara. Barbara Ives…and so I went with them. I didn't want to give them my money to get the coke because they might just take my money and not come back. So, I went with them to get the coke. And one of them was driving, one of them was sitting, I was sitting in the shotgun seat and one of them was behind me. Then all of a sudden, the arm from the back came around, grabbed me around the neck, pulled my head to the headrest, and the guy stuck a gun to my head, and he said, “If you move, I'm going to blow your fucking head off”. And then he started going like this and jabbing me in the head with the gun. I got the timing down of his hand moving. I grabbed his hand, I pinned it to the headrest of the car, I moved over, and I unlocked the door of the car. I was going to jump out into the traffic because I thought they were going to try to hurt me and rob me. And the driver hit the brakes and we all went forward. The driver took his hands off the steering wheel, pulled both my hands back like this. The guy with the gun was able to pull his hand loose, put the gun on my back, and he fired. 
The bullet went in behind my heart and it came out my stomach. And the impact from the bullet took me out of my tennis shoes and the tennis shoes had seven laces. So, you know how many laces that is. The impact was so strong that it left my shoes in the car, threw me into the street, and I hit the curb and I got a gash in my leg from the curb. He jumped out of the car, sat on my chest, and put the gun to my face. And this happened about two blocks from the police station, and it happened in front of a restaurant. So, people in the restaurant had seen a car at the red light with somebody with a gun beating someone, and they called the police. So, the police were there right away, and the police took the men into custody. The men turned out to be federal agents. I was charged with possession and delivery of drugs, resisting arrest with violence, and assaulting federal agents. I represented myself. I was found not guilty by a jury, and the jury recommended that the agents be indicted for attempted murder. And of course, nobody prosecuted them. The assassins walked free. 
**Arash:** Did you have a sense of skepticism after the Gainesville Eight trial going forward when you met new people that you didn’t know?
**Scott:** The question is really about; how could I trust people after that? The government's goal is to try to stop my behavior, and it's going to be hard for me to organize and work with people if I can't trust them. And I'm a hard-headed Marine. I'm mission oriented and I'm not going to allow them to stop me from doing my work. I also believe in the golden rule: Do unto others as you would have others do unto you. I'm a strong believer of that, to treat people that the way you want to be treated. If I want people to give me the benefit of the doubt, I have to be willing to give them the benefit of the doubt. I still continue doing what I did and what I believe in. And I still trusted people. But I tried to try to find out more about them when I would meet new people like, who do you know that I know, who can I talk to who can verify who you are? Those kinds of things.
**Arash:** You’ve mentioned a couple of individuals that you’ve worked with. I was wondering if there are any other notable activists or celebrities whose paths you may have crossed?
**Scott:** There are several. So, I would say Joan Baez is one of those people. I went to her home, and I met her. And on the back of her album, “Come from the Shadows”, she wrote a poem about me…and I got to meet Joan. I respect her, I like her a lot. She used to be married to David Harris and so she's one of the people that I would mention. 
Another one of them is Holly Near…I was part of the Indochina Peace Campaign. We traveled around the country and spoke at universities and did radio shows and TV shows against the war and the people in that campaign were Jane Fonda, Donald Sutherland, Holly Near, George Smith and myself. And so, we traveled together and spoke at different places about the war. And then we would sing songs and the songs that we sang were from this album, “Hangin’ in There”. I love this album. I love Holly. I love these songs, all of these songs, they're so good. 
And then of course... I met Graham Nash at his home, and he wrote the song, “Oh Camil”. So, somebody said “Graham Nash wrote a song about you”, and of course he was in Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young. And I said, “Wow, these famous people”. And so. I got to go out to California and meet them. And Graham Nash is a really decent guy. I really like him a very lot. He was very kind to me. I like his music and I love him. 

**Arash:** You’ve talked about attempting to stay under the radar after the Gainesville Eight trial, but you’ve obviously continued your activism since then. Could you talk about some of the events and activities you’ve partaken in since then?
**Scott:** … ‘75 to ‘77, I worked on David Harris's campaign for Congress in California. David Harris was a good friend of mine. He used to be married to Joan Baez. He went to prison for refusing to serve. He got drafted while he was in college. He was student body president at Stanford University. He gave a speech at Stanford University, saying those of them that were university students, they had a deferment and couldn't be drafted, and that was discriminatory against people who couldn't afford to go to college. 
So, he burned his document, so they drafted him…He was student body president, but they drafted him anyway and he refused to go. So, he went to prison for two years. Actually, about 18 months. Then he and I became friends. So, he worked for Congress, and he asked me to come out and work on his campaign. I went out to California, and I worked on his campaign. And before that, we had done a lot of speaking against the war together. We were “The Draft Dodger and the Hero”, and we talked about our opposition to the war in Vietnam. I always made the statement that David had more courage than I did, that I did what I was told. I was told to join the military. I joined the military, and I went. That he stood up to what the government said. He stood up to what people said, and he felt it was wrong and he didn't do it, and it took more courage, I felt, for David to stand up to everybody and go to prison than it took for me to do what I was told. David recently died, and I have a lot of respect for David. 
‘78 to ‘87, I got married, and had three children. In 1987, I went on a fact-finding trip to Central America. I came back, I founded the Gainesville chapter of Veterans for Peace, and I served as the president since then. In 1989 and 1990, I was an official observer of the elections in Nicaragua as the guest of the Sandinistas. In 1990, I went on a fact-finding trip to the Middle East, Israel, the West Bank, Gaza Strip, Occupied Territories and Jordan. I was also divorced in 1990 and I'm Jewish. I supported Israel until I went on that fact finding trip. I came back from that fact-finding trip and I started to work for Palestinian rights. That caused my family to disown me. 
In 1994, I returned to Vietnam as a U. S. representative for the Friendship Village Project, and that included a mission, a trip to my old battlefields. From 1994 to present, I've been an agent locally for many candidates in local elections. So, I do a lot of election work, and I help run people's elections. In 1996, I was remarried to Sherry, who you saw behind me before, and I'm still happily married. Sherry is my best friend and she's my partner in everything that I do. And in all of my work, we do together. There's nothing I do alone. We're total partners. And Sherry used to live in Israel. In 1999, I became the Green Party agent for Alachua County. In 2002, I was elected to the executive committee of the Suwannee St. John's Sierra Club and served as the political chair. In the 2004 election, I founded “All Veterans for Kerry”, and supported John Kerry for president. 
In 2014, I founded “Stand By Our Plan” to protect Alachua County's comprehensive plan, which protects our wetlands. I raised and spent $30, 000 against an organization called Plum Creek, which is the largest private landowner in the United States. And they spent $10,000 I spent $30,000. I won that battle with a county commission vote of five to zero against Plum Creek. And that was a huge battle, but you can see from before that all the work I do helping get people elected to office and the people I work to get elected to office were environmentalists because protecting the environment was really important to me. 
I'm a past counselor for the military, the GI rights hotline, which I was a counselor. I'm a member of the Community Coalition Against War and Terrorism. I'm a member of Veterans Call to Conscience. In 2017, the Legal League of Women Voters named me Outstanding Citizen. In 2020, I was appointed to the Alachua County Charter Review Commission, and I served as a commissioner on the commission for a year. I'm still President of Veterans for Peace. Working for Veterans for Peace. I still work to get people elected to protect the environment. 
And right now, I live in Florida. And we have a fascist governor named DeSantis who's outlawing books. Can you believe banning books? I can't believe they're banning books. But they're banning books and doing all kinds of fascist stuff. And if you look into the history of early Germany in the 30s, you can see Florida now. And so, I'm working really hard against fascism and that's what I'm doing right now. 
…I just want to make one other statement. So right now, there's a war going on in Gaza, and I've been to Gaza, and I have many Jewish friends here where I live, and I even have some relatives in Israel, and none of them support the occupation. I as Veterans for Peace, we do not support war as a legitimate means of conflict resolution. But I totally empathize with the struggle of the Palestinians. I was in Israel myself; I was in Jordan; I was in the West Bank, I was in Gaza, and when I talked to the Zionists I know, I was asking the same question: “Would you be willing to live in Gaza with your family under those conditions”? And none of them would. But they have no problem thinking that the Palestinians should, and I support Palestinian independence. I support their fight against apartheid, and I support their fight against occupation… So, we have a sister organization of Veterans for Peace that refuse to serve in the occupied territories. And the name of their organization is called “Yesh Gavol”, and “Yesh Gavol” in Hebrew means “there is a limit” and there is a limit and the Palestinians have reached that limit. And to tell you the truth, I'm surprised that it took them so long. 
**Arash:** Thank you for your time today, Scott.



